Tuition packages and benefits
MSS will offer two different tuition packages for the official course. Students can consider and choose the package that best suits their current needs. As it is the first year of the project, MSS is offering preferential tuition fees with two study packages available as follows:
Essentials: 1,199,000 VND
Advantaged package: 1,599,000 VND
Each package will include the following corresponding benefits:
Package
Benefits
Essentials
Advantaged
Number of theoretical lessons attended
6
10
Access the full course content (lecture slides, homework, samples)
Yes
Yes
Participate in practice sessions as an Observer
Yes
Yes
Participate in practice sessions as a Practitioner
No
Yes
Join the talkshow
Yes
Yes


Nonprofits organizations and collecting tuition
MSS does not consider the tuition fees paid by students as a payment for a product or service. Instead, we view them as a contribution towards the sustainable operation and development of MSS as a non-profit organization. These contributions will be used to cover the costs incurred during the design, preparation, and execution of the course, such as designing and maintaining the website, creating lectures, and providing support to the crew running the course. 
Once the initial costs have been covered, we plan to use these donations to support the development of the mooting community in Vietnam. This may include sponsoring individuals who want to join the MSS program or creating a collection of useful mooting materials. As a community-driven project, we are committed to using these donations to benefit the wider community and help promote the growth of mooting in Vietnam.
