What is Mooting?
Mooting, also referred to as “phiên tòa giả định” in Vietnamese, is a simulation of a court hearing or an arbitration. Participants, or “mooters”, research a given case problem, prepare written submissions, and present arguments for or against a party in the hearing.
Nowadays, mooting is actively invested in and promoted in many countries and jurisdictions with a strong legal system. It helps law school students practice critical thinking, persuasion skills, research, and understanding of the law. Additionally, it allows them to network within the legal community and gain valuable experiences for personal and professional growth.
Some prestigious international moot tournaments have a long tradition with a thriving contestant community such as:
Willem C. Vis International Commercial Arbitration Moot – Vis Moot (“Vis Moot”)
The Willem C. Vis Moot is a global platform for law students who are keen on studying international trade disputes. The issues discussed in Vis Moot often pertain to legal and practical aspects of contracts for the international sale of goods, which are governed by international regulations and principles such as the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods ("CISG") and the Model Law of the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law. Starting from 1994, Vis Moot has been held annually in Vienna, Austria, attracting over 300 law schools across the world. 
Foreign Direct Investment International Arbitration Moot (“FDI Moot”)
FDI Moot is an international arbitration competition focusing on foreign direct investment. The cases presented in the competition revolve around practical issues that arise in the field of foreign investment, with a combination of legal, commercial, and political factors. The participating teams serve as advocates for either investors or host countries in disputes related to investment projects and must apply arbitration rules, domestic laws and agreements between member states on investment, etc. 
Red Cross International Humanitarian Law Moot (“IHL Moot”) 
IHL Moot, organized by the International Committee of the Red Cross, focuses on legal matters related to the implementation of International Humanitarian Law in times of war and conflict. The theme of the IHL Moot involve safeguarding civilians during conflict, managing prisoners, or addressing emerging legal issues in the context of modern warfare.
Philip C. Jessup International Law Moot Court Competition (“Jessup Moot”)
The Jessup Moot is an esteemed and long-standing competition organized by the International Law Students Association. It focuses on matters related to international public law, such as human rights, common sense and justice, the law of the sea, and conflicts between nations, as well as mediating them.
Course overview
The MSS course will consist of 17 sessions: 1 trial session, 11 theoretical sessions, 4 mock sessions, a talk show, and a closing session. 
Theoretical sessions are scheduled for Thursday evenings and Sunday mornings. Mock sessions, talk shows, and closing session are planned for Saturday mornings and Sunday mornings, with specific details to be announced later.
To provide an opportunity for prospective learners to gain hands-on experience with the course, allowing them to make an informed decision before registering for the course, MSS will organize the first session – a theory session, free of charge. 
An overview of the program will be shown in the table below. For your convenience, theoretical sessions of the Essentials package will be highlighted in green. The sessions included in the Essentials package are highlighted in green. For mock sessions, Essentials students will participate as Observers.
Session No.
Subject
Content
Try it out
Introductory and mental mooting
Overview of mooting
Why would one do mooting?
Spirit of mooting
Overview of fundamental principles of mooting, and MSS’s course content 


Basic principles
The importance of preparation in mooting
How do you “win” in a moot competition?
The five pillars of successful mooting preparation
Preparation schedule, and average preparation for mooting competitions.


Teamwork
Team formation
Team dynamics
Teamwork throughout the mooting phases


Prepare, and solve the problem
Mise en place! Preparing the moot problem
Absorption of the moot problem
Pre-analysis of the moot problem


Research
Research assignment
Preliminary research
Critical thinking during research
Doing research properly


Mock Session No. 1
Note: The hypotheticals used in these Mock sessions, and team selection will be provided in the housekeeping session.


Mock Session No. 2
Note: The hypotheticals used in these Mock sessions, and team selection will be provided in the housekeeping session.


Written advocacy (Basic)
When does writing start?
Pre-memorial decisions
Writing foundations


Written advocacy (Advanced)
Proper usage of auxiliaries in a submission
The principle of super-clarity
The importance of editing in writing
Tone and language in written advocacy
Behind the scenes: how memorials are scored


Oral advocacy (Basic 1)
Oral advocacy foundations
The six phases of oral advocacy preparation: scripting, narrating, question & answering, rehearsing, mock hearings, and sparring
Overarching principles
Preparing the main speech (basic)


Oral advocacy (Basic 2)
Question and answers (basic)
The directing crew’s duties
The means of persuasion in oral advocacy (basic)
Rebuttals and surrebuttals (basic)
The cardinal sins of oral advocacy


Oral advocacy (Advanced 1)
Scripting
The first minute of awkwardness in an oral hearing
Preparing the main speech (advanced)
Questions and answers (advanced)
The means of persuasion in oral advocacy (advanced)


Oral advocacy (Advanced 2)
Rhetoric skills
Rebuttals and surrebuttals (advanced)
On your feet! Psychological issues in oral advocacy
Hearing shenanigans
Behind the scenes: how oral hearings are scored, and how judges actually decide who wins


Mock Session No. 3
Note: The hypotheticals used in these Mock sessions, and team selection will be provided in the housekeeping session.


Mock Session No. 4
Note: The hypotheticals used in these Mock sessions, and team selection will be provided in the housekeeping session.


Talkshow 
Specific content will be decided based on MSS’s assessment of the sessions and students' suggestions (if any)


Closing 
After the moot
Spirit of mooting
Post-competition reflection
Have fun and network!
Endorsements, feedback, etc.
A soon-to-be-disclosed surprise


Overview of theoretical sessions
It's important to learn and master the practical guides of any skill before practicing it. For a successful mooting journey and personal development, MSS believes that a strong theoretical foundation is essential. That's why MSS has structured 6 theorical lessons for Essentials and 10 theorical lessons for Advantaged to convey detailed knowledge of mooting skills. In each lesson, the instructor will not only share theories but also flexibly integrate reference examples, practical experiences, group discussions, and practical exercises to ensure students grasp the lesson in the best way possible. 
The curriculum will follow the order of four main skill groups: (i) skills that should be acquired before the mooting competition starts, (ii) skills related to what to do upon release of the moot problem, (iii) skills related to written advocacy, and (iv) skills related to oral advocacy.
Trial session: 
During this session, we will focus on four main topics, which are: the definition of mooting, why one would participate in mooting, the system of mooting competitions, and the spirit of mooting. Concurrently, we will also provide a brief overview of MSS's course curriculum, followed by a Q&A session to answer any questions you may have about the course.
On such a basis, whether you decide to join us for the official course or not, MSS hopes you’ll walk away from this session with a better understanding of the world of mooting, the benefits of participating in mooting, and what it takes to be a successful mooter.
Sessions on pre-competition skills
Preparing well before a moot competition starts can help you take a long stride on the moot competition journey. In this regard, MSS will introduce two sessions: learning the fundamentals and building effective teamwork. 
During the first session, students will learn about the essential principles of mooting. These principles will lay the foundation for all other skills needed in the competition and will also influence the moot planning process. 
The second session will focus on teamwork. Teamwork in mooting is very different from teamwork in university assignments. Team members need to share a common goal, actively critique each other, and support and cover each other when necessary. Mooting is a team game, and it cannot be successful if the members are not on the same page. This session will provide instruction on teamwork principles and the issues that require cooperation among team members.
Sessions on skills during the initial phase
The first time holding a moot problem can often leave contestants confused about how to handle it. Partly, this confusion arises because of the overwhelming amount of research material, such as in the Vis Moot or FDI Moot where the problems often span from 50 to 90 pages, not to mention the reference documents, leading contestants to feel inundated with information. Another reason is that contestants may not have a specific research plan, so they don't know where to start.
Therefore, the first session will focus on understanding the problem, or as we like to call it, the "processing" phase. Whether it's a moot or an actual dispute, facts are essential. Not mastering the facts of the moot problem can make your entire preparation and subsequent research a sandcastle, always on the verge of collapse. The first session will help you ensure that you always have a firm grasp of the moot problem.
The second session will focus on issues related to research. Most law students can do research, but knowing how to research correctly, adequately, and within a relatively restrained deadline is an issue that mooters need to address. Additionally, this session will guide the transformation of researched materials into content in preparation for the memorials phase.
Sessions on written advocacy skills
After registering for the competition, teams will be required to submit submissions in different formats depending on each moot competition. These may include full memorandums, briefs, outlines, etc. For larger moot competitions, the memorial is only part of the evaluation process for the team’s final result. For smaller moot competitions, these written submissions can even be used to determine which teams move on to the oral hearings.
Unlike a typical scientific research paper that analyzes multidimensional aspects and approaches information objectively, a written submission in moot court requires contestants to position themselves on one side, focusing on exploiting events to defend their client and undermine the opponent. Moreover, contestants often have to do this twice, for both the Claimant and the Respondent. Therefore, this is considered the first obstacle that contestants must face.
To ensure that you absorb the knowledge gradually and effectively, MSS will divide written advocacy skills sessions into two main sessions. The first session will concentrate on fundamental issues such as writing foundations and structuring arguments. The second session will delve deeper into more complex issues, such as editing, ensuring clarity and coherence throughout the submission.
Sessions on oral advocacy skills
After submitting their written submissions, teams will participate in oral advocacy sessions involving at least three parties - the Claimant, the Respondent, and the judges (acting as an arbitral tribunal). Each team will represent one party to present issues of dispute before the tribunal.
Unlike the typical question-and-answer format commonly seen in law school, oral advocacy is an extremely flexible and unpredictable part of the competition. Each contestant usually has only 20 minutes to address multiple related issues while also responding to questions and challenges that may be posed at any time by the judges. Following the main submissions, teams are often required to submit on-spot rebuttals and surrebuttals.
The oral advocacy session is often viewed as the decisive factor in a team's performance in a moot competition. Therefore, this will be the topic with the most sessions - 4 sessions. Among these, the first 2 sessions will focus on basic issues, such as preparing for speech preparation, script writing, introductions, and question-answering, etc., and the remaining 2 sessions will delve deeper into the topics covered in the basic part, along with more technical issues such as  presentation structure, rehearsals, and rhetorical devices.
Overview of mock sessions
MSS believes that theoretical sessions, if not applied, will forever remain mere words, never fulfill their true significance. Therefore, MSS wishes to organize four practical sessions in two phases as follows:
Phase 1: Two mock sessions following the completion of the initial four theoretical sessions.
Phase 2: Two mock sessions following the completion of all eight theoretical sessions.
The purpose of these mock sessions is to allow students to apply what they have learned into practice gradually. On the other hand, by comparing their performance between the batches of practice sessions, students can self-assess their progress and the quality of the course.
Furthermore, to create opportunities for students to broaden their circle of connections, MSS will randomly divide and group teams to compete. The match list, roles, and case studies for the matches will be announced during the first formal session. The mock sessions will simulate the speaking session of moot competitions. The teams that competed against each other in phase 1 will continue to compete against each other in phase 2, but with reversed role.
After the mock sessions, the panel of judges, consisting of the Instructor and a Guest Judge, will listen and provide specific comments on each participants’ presentation. If possible, the guest judge will introduce a special topic related to mooting to share with the students during the mock session.
MSS will post details of the Guest judges on social media sites, as well as in the News and Events section of the website.
End of course sessions
MSS will organize a talk show and a closing session for the course.
The talk show will will provide an opportunity for students to share and listen to experiences, advice from guest speakers in mooting, issues related to the legal profession, or any topic proposed by the students themselves. 
The closing session will be a chance for the instructor and students to sit down together, summarize the learning process, and have final discussions and advice about the path of mooting. Additionally, there will be a secret surprise awaiting the students at this final session.
