· Thu Hằng – Anh Đức DAV FDI 2023

During our brief interaction with Mr. Son Hoang, we found him to be a dedicated, experienced and very open-minded individual. He is, in short, a skilled advocate, a tough but extremely fair-minded teacher, and a good friend you will be able to enjoy the journey with. His help, we believe, will prove indispensable to you as it was to us.

· Jud Askins

I have had the pleasure of working on Moot panels with Son Hoang in both the VIS Moot and FDI Moot competitions. I believe him to be a truly gifted Panelist, but where he excels is in his remarkable understanding of the skills necessary to win Moot competitions. To date, no one with whom I have served has as directly and concisely stated the formula necessary for Moot success, and as a result I now find myself quoting him in Moot competitions.

· Diệu Linh FDI 2021

Participating in moot hearings under the guidance and evaluation of Mr. Hoang as the coach helped our team gain a more comprehensive and nuanced understanding of those hearings. Mr. Hoang's expertise extends beyond the realm of law to encompass a wide range of subjects related to argumentation and its associated theories. His contributions have enhanced our understanding and practicing of mooting, making it more fundamental and efficacious. Moreover, Mr. Hoang is exceptionally committed to providing candid and constructive feedback, which helped our team hone their argumentation and writing skills.

· FTU VMoot 2019

Mr. Hoang is definitely the most passionate and enthusiastic person I've ever met. When our team was prepping for VMoot, we reached out to him for help, even though we'd only met him once. And guess what? He said yess! We were texting him at like 2am 3am, and he was still there, patiently giving us advice without a single complaint. You can just feel his passion for Moot rubbing off on everyone. He's the kind of mentor you can totally rely on. Plus, he's got this super chill vibe and handles opponents like a lawyer in Kdrama^^

· Khánh Huyền – UEH CISG 2023

We appreciate Mr. Hoang’s guidance in several areas of our team’s oral advocacy skills training. First, his emphasis on structuring our arguments effectively has helped us outline our position and main points more clearly. Second, his clarity-and-articulation-oriented training style greatly improved our speaking pace, enunciation, and overall clarity of speech. Third, his guidance on developing persuasive techniques has been invaluable in making us understand the model of oral hearings and how to establish confidence in presenting our arguments. Fourth, his emphasis on having effective responses to questions helped us improve our ability to address challenging questions by providing well-thought-out and concise answers. Lastly, his advice on time management has been beneficial in helping us make the most of our allotted time.

· Kim Ngân Mai Phương UEH CISG 2020 2021

Having been through both national and international mooting competitions for almost 02 years, we could not be more inspired to share with other prospective mooters about Mr. Hoang’s dedication and unwavering support serve as a coach. In those competitions, his ability to understand the goals and challenges of the team and then tailor his guidance to suit the criteria is remarkable. He was such a beacon of motivation that even when faced with setbacks, he was giving the most valuable and constructive advice for the entire team.

· 1900

Senpai Hoang is genuinely an exceptional individual and one of the few experts in mooting activity in Vietnam. His intensive and well-rounded insights on global mooting practices, coupled with his sharp reasoning and meticulous approach, consistently propel the teams he mentors to remarkable success. Mooting is a strategic-based playground, and Senpai Hoang always knows how to highlight the strengths and leverage the talents of each team member, optimising their chances of winning. I firmly believe anyone can transform into a formidable mooter under the conscientious coach of Senpai Hoang.

Not only a talented mooter, but anh Hoang has also proven himself to be a dedicated and well-recognized mentor. When working with him to prepare for the CISG Pre-moot 2022 competition, I have witnessed his enthusiasm for mooting as well as the sharp knowledge and skills demonstrated through his practical and effective communication. Therefore, it is undeniable that he is the "golden key" which is surely desired by all mooters on their mooting journey.

Having Mr. Hoang, the Founder of Mooting Summer School as the Coach for our team during the Vietnam CISG Pre-Moot 2022 was an enriching experience. He strategically and meticulously prepared us for each round, ensuring our arguments were strong and our performances were polished. Under his mentoring, our team progressed from the “underdogs” to second runner-up. Not just mooting skills that I learn from Mr. Hoang, but also his professionalism, dedication, and far-reaching vision in the legal career. From working with a skilled person like Mr Hoang, I firmly believe that the Mooting Summer School would undoubtedly be the suitable direction for those harbouring the mooting aspiration.

· FTU VMoot 2020

VMoot 2020 was our first experience with mooting and it gave us valuable insights. We were introduced to Mr. Son Hoang by our big sister, Miss Hong Anh. As a team with two juniors and a freshman, we were fortunate to have his guidance and learn many practical mooting skills from him. He provided detailed guidance on creating a statement of defense, litigation skills, and tips on handling tough questions from the arbitration panel or opponent's difficult argument without faltering. Most importantly, he inspired us with the mooter spirit, confidence, and team solidarity. As L.F.F. members, we are honored to have Mr. Son Hoang guide us in preparing for mooting competitions. We always hope to have the opportunity to learn and work with Mr. Son Hoang on future projects.

L.F.F. team!

· SMoot 2020, 2021

Serving as one of the main judges at the Saigon Moot Court Competition, Mr. Son Hoang was a voice of authority within the courtroom. With his sharp, yet fair, questioning for both sides of the case—narrowing in on the merits of principles of law—we were always confident that the oral arguments in his chambers would be a session worth sitting in, whether the preliminary or the final rounds.

· Eagles

After participating in three moot competitions with Hoang as my teammate and coaching the same moot team about three times, Hoang has left a great impression on me. As a mooter, Hoang shines with a strong personality, works independently, and exhibits impressive oral skills. As a coach, Hoang's style can be described as visionary, sometimes coming off as authoritative. He is great at outlining clear goals for the team and maintaining high expectations.

As a friend who invited him to do mooting together from the early days, not knowing what mooting was, it seemed our student life turned to a new page then. I am very happy to have helped awaken the eagle inside of him, which has given us the opportunity to fight together, from sparring matches to the final moot hearing of my student life. Hoang is a responsible person, passionate about litigation as well as research in English, which other members were still not good at during that time. Building a professional and methodical Mooter training program like MSS is a small dream, but it is truly gratifying when it is realized and cherished, built, and nurtured by the most dedicated and professional members, rich in experience and passion, like Hoang. I firmly believe that MMS and Hoang will always have successful careers and grow even stronger in the future.

· LEGION

Strict, meticulous, and demanding are the characteristics we often describe about Mr. Nguyen Son Hoang. Thanks to his dedicated guidance, our team made significant progress when participating in FDI Moots.

When we embarked on our mooting journey in 2020 with limited experience, we were fortunate to have Mr. Hoang as our mentor. His dedication and sharp legal thinking helped us to orient and develop in new directions. Although his coaching style may be somewhat strict, it is truly heartfelt. Along the way, this has fostered discipline and a high level of concentration in two members, enabling the team to prepare independently and compete more effectively in 2021.

Mr. Hoang's extensive knowledge of Mooting makes him a dedicated mentor that anyone pursuing the mooting path should consider.

· Chị Thảo

· Henry

· Duyên – HCMULAW MCC

During my two terms as an organizer, Mr. Hoang has provided tremendous support to the club by serving as both a speaker and a judge. As a speaker, he has shared his passion and enthusiasm in workshops, making them engaging and interesting. Additionally, his contribution as a judge in moot matches by providing thoughtful feedback and answering questions has been invaluable in helping contestants learn and grow. I was thrilled to hear about Mr. Hoang's new

project and was impressed by his dedication to the mooting community and law students in general. His devotion gives me confidence in the positive impact he will make in creating value for this community.

· HLU VMoot 2019

Greetings! We are the team representing Hanoi Law University participating in the VMoot 2019 competition. Throughout our participation, we have received significant support and assistance from mentor Nguyen Son Hoang. Mr. Son Hoang has been an invaluable mooting mentor throughout our experience. His guidance and expertise improved our team's mooting skills and confidence, as it was our first moot competition. We were impressed by Son's dedication, patience, and constructive feedback. He has a remarkable ability to dissect complex legal issues and provide insightful and distinctive perspectives that have sharpened our arguments and performance, and he also fostered a supportive and encouraging environment that motivated us to strive for excellence. His words have been instrumental in our growth as aspiring mooters. His mentorship in VMoot 2018 has left an indelible mark on our mooting journey

· ULAW IHL 2022 FDI 2023

We are the mentees of Coach Son Hoang in the mooting competitions IHL Moot 2022 (International Humanitarian Law Moot) and FDI Moot 2023 (Foreign Direct Investment Law Moot) from Ho Chi Minh City University of Law.

We hold Mr. Son Hoang in high esteem for his fiery passion and practical mooting experience. He has been an excellent guide for us, providing us with knowledge and advocacy strategies, as well as teaching us speech etiquette and styles. We have come to realize that an outstanding advocacy performance requires many elements, which has inspired us to develop a deep passion for mooting.

Mr. Son Hoang is also an assiduous mentor to his mentees. He was always willing to practice with us until midnight and even travelled to Hanoi to motivate us during the intense competition. His patience and dedication have been a great source of motivation for us and have helped to deepen our bond to this day.

We hope that the Mooting Summer School will be a milestone for the Vietnamese mooting community by shaping the mindset and skills of aspiring mooters. We wish the program all the success it deserves.

Peace.
